Thank you.


Hello. Hello, hello. Hey.


You can use Chinese, I can translate it. And you can use English. Yes. Please sit. Any table here can be done.


I can do it.


Yes.


Is this the whole device?


Hi, nice to meet you.


Is this the whole device able to capture my face? Now, if I would stand there


Wait a minute, I'm trying to switch my camera Okay, they'll be like this So really cool, right?


It's really cool, yes


Okay, and you can share your screen as well


I have a question


You have You have to go first That's the point of the door from the door, and the other side Yes Bestian, can you hear us?


Hi, hello.


Hello Bestian, you hear me?


Yes. I'm sure.


Hi, everyone. Please sit here.


You can see the camera. Can you check if the oldest, like, able to capture the send me? Because if we have no people here, then I would like to...


Yeah, I know. ...to stand here. Yeah. Let me check. Yes. They are able to capture you as well. And like which? If you stand, because it's like 300 and... Yeah, yeah, yeah. So no worries about that. So I can basically stand everywhere and it's just like... Yeah, no worries. Okay, cool.


請問待會的演講也會用色調整嗎?


我這邊會開,但是我不太確定它的穩定性 所以反正如果有任何技術問題的話 就是有,就是有,就是再麻煩達士 你在聊電視裡面告訴我 好 And


um and uh now it's time for the speeding of the snakes as well 大家如果我這樣講話的話你聽得到了嗎


可以啊很清楚 好謝謝 那也跟線上的大家講一下 雨婷 哈嘍雨婷上線了 哈嘍雨婷 過後面開麥的話也可以回個運行 有找到 飲水機的話再另外一次 對對對 如果你要喝水 對 然後 今天的介紹


然後還有


哪裡來的?


那你是從哪裡來的?你是哪一位保障者?可以方面問一下嗎?


我是用綠碼,因為我在英國都會找活動,所以我就看


那你就剛好來台灣這樣子


因為我家人在台灣住,我剛畢業,所以開始工作,但是就回來看


你的工作是在英國還是在台語? 在倫敦 有趣,因為我們有參與者現在在 他遠在倫敦,現在跑到牛津區了 對,他遠遠在倫敦大學,後來跑到 UCL,然後跑到 Buxford


對,他是國師生 Yeah, right


這個也是 Bade Shift


或是上文


這是上文,還是... Badger 對 什麼口味 yeah sure yeah what is the difference between green and white? well basically they have jam inside so the green one is like the jam is for matcha flavor and the white one is the cookie is the matcha flavor so different flavors. the jam inside the row it will be the matcha flavor and the cookie will be like the salt cream flavor yeah okay yeah no worries and this is from japan yeah um i traveled to japan like in a month ago all right i think time is up and uh currently we uh luckily we have two people in here uh besides the speaker so that that's also worse because we order this of a very good community space. And I will use Mandarin and English to explain the community space rule. And after that, we will move on to the speaker today. So, 等一下, I will use Chinese and English to introduce this place. And also, I will give you a brief introduction to the place of the local community space. 那先跟大家介紹一下 就是臨時陣舞描沖款是G0B社群 蠻重要的一個行政小組 那基本上來講就是他們都負責去 就大家一起來辦黑客搜 然後還有就是舉辦各式各樣的互動 然後如果你們有興趣的話 可以參考 就對G0B的專案有興趣的話 可以參考桌上女懷的這個DM 那這個DM應該是可以讓展望拿回去的 所以就是大家可以參考一下這個DM 然後裡面有非常多QR Code 如果你有興趣的話 就可以少這個QR Code 去連到更多的專案的資訊 沒有興趣的話 也沒關係 那就是希望大家之後 如果有任何的 想要研系 或你 就是如果想要 真的要做什麼事情的話 也都可以來參加 就是GinniB的活動 那這邊是GinniB的社群空間 這邊是台北市NPO Hub的202號市 那其實我們在NPO Hub 辦過很多活動 微然有參加過 我們很多次的活動 然後我們這一次 來到這個空間 是GinniB揪松團的辦公室 然後它其實也是作為 對這樣社群專案 這個空間 這個空間 就是等於是 社群只要捐助很少 很少的金額 來支持社群 那我們就會 可以使用到這個空間 來去辦一些 我們社群的一些活動 那所以這就是 GinB的一個精神 就是 他是去支持 這樣子的一個 一些不同開源專案的運作 然後讓開源專案 可以用非常低的一個 非常低的一個成本 然後去做 開展自己想要做的事情 那 最近大家在來做的 社群裡面在做的專案 有蠻多的包含說 像是VT1 然後也有表喊說 像是最近比較 更多人參與的應該是花蓮的專案 就是在花蓮裡面 我們最近有一個State Channel 然後那個State Channel裡面有不同的 那個State Channel裡面有不同的Channel 然後那個不同的Channel裡面有一個花蓮的Channel 然後那個花蓮的Channel裡面就是 最近就是在做更多的救災平台 還有就是美合志工等等東西 好 那這邊是我們視頻空間 那補一下一些Logistic的issue 第一個是等一下吃完東西的時候 垃圾的部分我會跟大家收 然後請大家不要把垃圾依在這邊 那就是保持掌聲的整件 然後如果你有使用插座的話 就不要忘記把你的充電線或者是 你的電源可以讓大家使用的 畢竟如果要做自備安裝的話 就需要有Electricity帶的 那再來就是如果要去上洗手間的話 等一下從這邊走出去 右手邊出去的那個門的右手邊 If you need to use a drink or drink water, you will be able to use it to use it to use it to use it. So for the introduction of these spaces, this is basically the community space that I talk to you. And some logistics issues that if you want to go to toilet, just go to the door at that place. And then go out and fold them to the right direction, right-hand direction. Then there will be a toilet for you to use it. And if you want to use some drinking water, then water machine will be on your left hand side after you get out of the door


so yeah


and 那今天我們也非常開心 我們可以邀請到 我是Carolina Mindfulness 她等一下會自我介紹 那簡單來說 就是因為台灣 一直都是跟關注 就是用數位工具的方式 就是大多麼的東西參與 那這件事情跟 Mindfulness 研究員 她在做的事情 是非常有關係的 所以我們今天 就是剛好趁她來台灣的時候 我們就邀請她來做一個分享 然後也歡迎大家 一起來參加 這樣子 那我們今天的 整個活動呢 除了有線上參與的選項之外 我剛剛發現忘記按轉錄了 不過還好我剛剛只有在做自我介紹而已 所以等我一下 好 看一下 欸欸欸 我發現我這邊好像沒有辦法按轉錄 我等一下再來排除掉這個問題 我等一下排除一下那個麥克風全線的部分 但反正我會先自我介紹的那個部分 就是 今天我們等一下會是由Michael S來做分享 然後結束之後會是由我來做VTiWAN相關的介紹 那我們等一下最後的時候 for a while to discuss, for example, if you want to discuss such major issues, whether there are any issues or if there are any issues you want to discuss.


- So, - Is that the microphone is turning off? It's not to turn off. - I'm sure. - The noise is not to hear.


- Do you see now? Are you now? Do you hear me? Hi?


Wait a minute. are setting up some technical issues online for online speakers. So this is the one that we have to do on the internet. We have to fix some of the issues on the internet. I'll come back to the new one. 現在有聽到嗎 不好意思 現在我的聲音有聽到嗎


有聽到


我在想是不是我剛剛按那個麥克風是有問題的 我往下測試用速修類的


停止測試 看一下


現在呢


有聽到


我發現我現在是沒辦法轉入的狀態 所以轉入的部分我可能會需要看怎麼樣處理 但是因為我等一下 但是因為 或者是有另外一個方法


我試試看開一個手機版的聲音錄下來 然後轉入好了


也可以


試試看


又或者是Bestian 那個Zoom的錄影 因為我有一個錄影的用的上號 所以我等一下結束之後 再把完整的影片上傳 然後我們再看 怎麼樣把那個組織稿導出來 這樣子如何


哦好啊 如果是有影片檔的話 就可以用那個後置的方式


把它轉成我一直這樣 對對對 我的想法是這樣子 好 好 那我們就直接開始哦 Sorry we are dealing with technical issues and all the things are done So 事不宜遲 我們就直接開始吧 on finding Carl Michaelis that I have to find. Okay, let's welcome Carl Michaelis to the sharing of his research. Yes.


- Okay, I can start? - Yeah, you can start.


- Okay, perfect, yeah.


So, again, I'm looking in this direction, right? - Yes. - So yeah, or maybe in a little bit more to you, it's more convenient. - Yeah. - Like, yeah, so I'm extremely happy to hear like saying this in the first place because like I was hearing from like Web Zero and WeTaiwan already for a longer time it's really, really cool to be here and in person for me. And like, actually the research topic that I kind of switched to because I was previously researching and go to a different direction is like the kind of how we can use collective intelligence to, or what we know from collective intelligence to scale the diverse of the decision-making. So this is kind of my main interest at the moment. And I chose the subtitle or how to make our democracy efficient, because this is more related to my underlying innovation. And currently I'm at the Department of Applied IT at the Gothenburg University in Sweden, but I'm like originally from Germany, but I've been living in Sweden for four years now about, and I'm currently doing a collaboration with the National Syngua University in Sinshu, and that's actually also the reason why I'm here. and maybe introducing myself first. So I did a bachelor first in psychology, then I did another one in physics, then a master in statistics, and then I switched to computation neuroscience in my PhD. So kind of mixed things. And I was also working in computation neuroscience for one and a half more here as a postdoc, but then I stopped. I took like one year for my children, and then I started completely new in this kind of democracy direction. Well, direction like this. And also, like, actually, like, through the whole time of my studies, I was very developer and parallel to just always, like, collect some money. So I had some, like, developed, like, programming experience, but also, like, during my studies, I had a programming experience. So I think I'm actually quite an experienced programmer. And this democracy project where I'm now researching on the very first idea for this is actually like 13 years old. It's just like one year ago that I started and making it kind of professional in a way. And maybe mentioning this, I'm also behind the Democracy Innovators podcast. If you're interested in this, Google for it. It just exists for some months. So it's quite new. I'm not the one interviewing the people. someone else i'm doing this together with but i'm supporting as much as i get in background and there's like nearly every week an interesting guest that is speaking like from the from the states so yeah i can highly recommend who will get and like i keep the motivation quite short because i think i don't need to motivate here too much like this is just a plot that the normal shows around the global state of democracy report and it's like you know this may be from the climate stripes uh like blue and but in this case it's kind of the democracy stripes for the whole world and blue means uh like in in average more countries advancing in a democratic development and blue red means that more countries are declining and as you can see like in the last i think seven or eight years in average countries in the world are declining in the democracy and i think this is a feeling we're all sharing um with like particular specific problems in all our democracies but i think every like every democracy probably today has severe problems um one direction like this one yeah so the question is like the main motivation question is how can we build a democracy that kind of potentially scales even locally is efficient and is at the same time of course recognized as legitimate um and um like what i'm talking about is like i would actually to save some time not introduce the liberty of democracy as a concept just quickly saying that like democracy the liberty of democracy or the idea behind the liberty of democracy is to to be more like um like uh debate focused in a way uh instead of just like voting for a representative that is kind of taking decisions for four years across all topics and then that's like yeah that's actually no participation in in pretty participation while the liberty democracy describes the participation process where you really engage in the decision making process and oh sorry and then like the um in the next step i want to like just summarize just from from kind of my background probably you know a lot of these things already um maybe not i don't know and just summarize some digital tools we have available or like today that might help us um then going into the scaling part um because like helping like democratic decision making is one part but scaling it to like thousands or millions of people is another thing uh actually the distinction between those two is not so sharp so yeah maybe so it's debutable maybe would also fit into one photos and the other country and finally i would if time if you have enough time talk a little bit about decentralization as one concept that i think is quite important especially when these approaches become more successful okay um i'm skipping over the the liberation part and go into facilitation directly. So maybe starting here. So the main question is how can we facilitate deliberation? So what kind of tools, what kind of technologies are we available? And one of the technology which is maybe a little bit surprising, but what I find quite important is collaborative live editing. Because this is kind of, I mean, it's just for small groups, but it's a tool that is really helpful to come together in like deciding on things, especially in a synchronous body. I'm coming back to this when we're talking in the end about scaling,


because then this becomes actually quite important again.


In general, I think there are some missing parts here that I would like to see more like development in this direction, especially when it comes to like voting and discussion mechanisms within documents. I think there are some few experiments with this, but not really like to a large extent. And I think there is a lot of pretension to this, that people vote on suggestions that others make instead of, you know, have this confusion of


responsibility who's not the one accepting the change or whatever. So I think there's a lot of


potential in this. Like technically, and when you have junky, it's not so important. Another like second important thing that I think can contribute a lot to the deliberative processes is argument mapping. The idea of argument mapping is actually quite old. I don't know if you're familiar with this maybe but if not i can quickly go through it so if you look on the right side you will see kind of a tree structure and this kind of reflects an argument structure so argument mapping mainly is doing one thing you just define a claim then you maybe define subclaims that support your claim um or that just additional subclaims of the main claim and then you can have support claims or like let's say something that speaks against it and so on so you have kind of a very rational, clear structure of the argumentation. And people are working on this for many, many years now. Interestingly, just in the last two years or so, there was kind of a new thing coming up, which is all argument mining. I mean, argument mining in principle is also a little bit older. But now, with the ability to have large language models available, the argument mining becomes quite interesting.


Because what you can do now is just


take a text that someone has written without even thinking about the argument structure. And then LLM identifies the argument structure in the text and highlighting, like here for example in blue, the main claim that the person has implicitly made and highlighting the subclaims and the supporting arguments and so on. So you get kind of a reflection on what you have actually written and you can identify what arguments are maybe missing. Maybe you made some claims but you have actually no argument for it. And it cannot not only highlight the text but also kind of build this whole tree structure and then you can easily see okay there's kind of an argument missing so something went wrong in the argumentation so that might be a tool that's helpful another one is like this whole field of sense making i'm sorry for this day i generated a picture because i just had no other one i did find the other one so the basic idea of sense making is that if you like in normal participation processes it often happens or like in traditional ones it often happens that you have like groups maybe like here like people sitting around the table and discussing and then you have like they produce some materials some texts some notes some i don't know whatever and then some some experts like take all this information and try to make sense of it so they try to summarize it and like try to identify what has to come up with it and this of course can be optimized by ai in the sense that you that there are already like tools for it that you kind of put the smartphone in the middle for example it records everything and then kind summarizes this the thing that's it basically quite simple and this can of course also be performed in online meetings and maybe saying one thing to this and kind of criticism and while that principle like i think that ai is very useful for a lot of processes i think it's always important to keep in mind that like at least from my perspective Latin language models are kind of collective intelligence like kind of a way of predictive intelligence because it kind of uses intelligence of humans in kind of form of words and builds an abstract representation of this which is kind of collecting together all the information that people have gathered so far but the like reproducing information or summarizing information from this works in a way that we don't understand so if there is kind of a summary of a meeting we have this kind of ai black box that produces some summary of what the people have talked about but we don't actually know why the AI has left out specific parts of the discussion and why it has implemented other parts. So this is something we actually don't know. I personally think at the moment, and my perspective on this, is that AI is very useful in smaller groups because it really helps to summarize things quickly and people can quickly see, oh, okay, there was one argument, I made it a discussion, we have to put it in again because somehow the AI missed it. So it's easy to have some manual control over some things that went wrong. While if you do this for, I don't know, 10,000 people and let us say I summarize it and maybe it generates the final output, it's very hard to identify what was missing. What is a really cool approach, at least I like it a lot, is that in the direction of fact-checking, there's one of these famous examples, there's the community notes. I don't know if you've heard of this, like on Twitter, this way of where people can suggest corrections to Twitter posts. And then through a kind of voting mechanism, where people mark these things as relevant, then an algorithm decides if it shows some correction text or not, or even which one. And interestingly, this falls into a product class. There are just some papers from 2022 about this. They call it then bridging-based ranking. Wait a minute.


Yeah. There's-- like technical issues here oh okay yeah let me just read new reload the page


no worries


okay yeah so there's a broader class which is called bridging based ranking and basically what bridging based ranking means is you know from for example in social media you know this effect of polarization and which is often not only i mean it's also kind of a human thing but it's like amplified by algorithms that kind of uh benefits like or at least the companies benefit from polarization in a way that if they recommend content that is kind of polarizing people will watch it longer people watch it more so it kind of produces more advertising more attention so more attention and therefore more advertising and this just produce more money so there's kind of an incentive for companies to to produce polarization actually and the idea of bridging based ranking is to use like kind of the same algorithms but just to bridge people in instead or polarized them because this is technically also like totally possible you just show like comments or posts or whatever to people that are most likely to convince the people to think a little bit different instead of yeah either just pushing them in the same direction or showing them showing them the exact opposite of what they think and yeah this whole class i think is quite quite cool because it's there is there are some algorithms deciding on this but the effect of the algorithms is not as black box as ai algorithms are and there is still more kind of collective intelligence in it because people are still the ones writing the comments still the ones writing the posts and it just shows what helps people most to kind of understand each other's opinions i like this a lot then there is one thing this is probably not so well known but i really like this approach that's also quite new is like value elicitation and in this case we use ai again to kind of understand what the value behind the thinking of people actually is and then like the ai can make abstract representations of values of people and help like for example during a discussion process and to highlight that there's maybe you know maybe you're fighting on a high level about something um but maybe i can can identify because it knows the values of the block the people discussing there that there is that this person has a deep like very deep value about something that is probably very important to bring forward in a way because it might help to come over this fight that they currently have so it's really really trying to go very deep into like what we believe in a way um there is some some research about this which is quite interesting then there is AI mediation and there's some like there was one study where they used AI as mediator to kind of resolve conflicts and they could show that like through AI mediation in the group agreement increased a bit I actually cannot judge on the effect but in principle there's also some potential in this and then there's clustering actually this is something you probably know very well like polis for example and actually it's it's not so clear if it's if I should call the clustering i also thought it's actually also kind of a way of sense making but not using ai but using actually collective intelligence so kind of less more not a black box way of doing sense making but like a more people-oriented way of doing sense making and this is actually something i would like to learn more from you about this and and then there is finally i also put it in here as also quite well known like vote delegation like what's normally referred to as just dedicating votes to other people and like in the in the research literature this is not so so it's not so clear if this is really helpful like there's a lot of studies show that there's a lot of like concentration of power because you know people are lazy they give they dedicate their votes to someone and they forget about it and some people have a lot of power for a long time but other studies also suggest some new mechanisms and say it depends on implementation so in general i would say it's quite debated if this is really a good approach but actually i like the principle idea and certainly something we should always have in mega boma so i think there are probably applications where this makes sense okay so these are like just some some things that i come up with maybe honestly saying that it's not of course not a complete list but it's like a lot of things I just try to kind of cluster them a little bit to get kind of an overview because like my personal goal is really to kind of get an overview of all the tools all the approaches that are like more collected in recent years but also like sometimes 10 20 years ago to kind of make it make it increase the chances that we are able to build platforms that integrate more of these ideas together in a way and not just one small tool maybe facilitating some i don't know making some fact checking another school making some vote delegation and whatever but really having them all in mind and integrating them in a way that we can really build something like a new democracy in a way and not just a small tool for some small applications okay now now we're coming slowly a


little bit more to my work and when it comes about scaling and before i'm coming to my work i just


going to share some some approaches that i've found out there i know in the future um or in the world in general that already do scale in of innovation um like one of the most well-known probably is many publics or citizens assemblies this is kind of where you have a lottery of like citizens and then they discuss about something and then they kind of represent the whole society or the whole group for whatever they stand for and the main principle is that they are recruited they have a learning phase where they're kind of educated about the topic they deliberate then some normally some experts take all the things together and kind of make a decision


often there's an evaluation where like the people can discuss again or give some feedback on the


final outcome and then it's kind of recommended to uh to the government or whoever is on this it's at least in europe this is quite famous at the moment and kind of testing with this also like from government level um the only like we are maybe starting with this one like the question is of course is it really that's what we need to have we like found our solution and we're and i'll be happy forever um and like there are some indications that say yes it's actually going the right direction in the sense that um like people are more inclined to discuss politics so So even those people who are normally maybe not discussed so much, they just understand a little bit more and find it more interesting, which is quite cool. People gain some knowledge through this process, which is also quite cool, like about the topic they're discussing. And in some few cases, they are even able to get their opinions, which is probably one of the hardest things for our students, but it's still this is possible.


So it's kind of, in this case, positive.


The downside is, and this is also kind of what I feel is the most critical part about it, is it can be used to restore the legitimacy of political leaders. So what you can easily do is, like, if you're a politician and you have, I don't know, maybe your popularity is not so high, you can just, maybe in your town or maybe in the whole country or whatever, you just do a citizen assembly and then you can claim like hey i i'm like you can all participate in in politics i'm now you know doing um like opening this up for you but in the end the result is not actually used as a policy you know people discuss then there's a nice result but it's it's like the same with the kind of climate change reports you know all the scientists meet they write like 100 100 hundreds of pages with reports describing what the problem is and how to solve it and then it's basically just ignored and the same can also happen with the citizens sometimes because they their powers kind of you know there's always a political level over it and their powers are unrestricted and if people are not going to the streets and protesting for their ideas not much might happen but like eventually it depends on the implementation so if like if people like if governments or whoever is implementing this is doing it in a good way it certainly has the potential to work if not then it can even undermine the deliberative process um some three other approaches which are very less like much less popular i think or well known are like some i found in the literature or i'm aware of so first one is the so-called people supported intelligence approach it's a paper i found like they also have some more papers around the testing is approached. The basic idea here is that you like everyone in a group of people like forming a community in a way you know can be a whole country can be anything or a town or whatever and they like everyone come in into the process with one idea of how to solve it. It's a kind of a proposal and then they meet in this case just two people meet together and assigned to small groups and then they discuss each other's ideas and they agree they try to agree on one of the two ideas and in the next stage kind of there's kind of a reassignment of the groups and the ideas that they have decided once on this in this case the orange one in this case the light blue one remain and all the people in the groups just discuss on those two ideas and kind of the number of ideas was kind of half in this first round and in the next round kind of this happens again until only one final idea remains. This is quite cool because it's different to polls where you have kind of different options available and you just click. In this case you really discuss deeply about these ideas and in terms of choosing them. Yeah, anyway, maybe mentioning this here, the main problem I think here is that ideas cannot be merged, you know, you still have them kind of discreetly next to each other next thing is called futropy or further developed in as dow democracy the idea here is to use prediction markets for politics in a way that the normal political representative democracy system kind of defines goals like saying okay until 2030 we want to have 20% reduced co2 emissions for example but the political representatives actually don't decide on how to reach this they justify the goal and then from the society this whole society everyone actually can propose how this could be solved and everyone can bet on those proposals so i can say i bet like until 2030 this proposal from this person will be successful or i can bet this like this one will not be successful and i actually bet with money on this and um if like then after some time like the proposal which has like the highest value in a way or most volts kind of in terms of money volume is chosen as this is what we now do as a society in a way and then when the year 2030 was reached like maybe five years later um then it's checked like did we reach 20 reduction or didn't we reach it and if it was reached then those betting on yes they win money and those who said know they lose their money and the other way around if it was not not and actually there are a lot of studies showing that prediction markets are kind of the most precise way of predicting the future um even more precise than calls so this is kind of a study from predicting u.s president elections and kind of prediction markets are kind of the best way of predicting the outcomes and that's at least the most best anyway the problem here is of course it's not deliberative so people discussing with each other and there are other problems like those people with most money will have most influence on the policy. So there are some problems attached to this but similar like maybe to the vote delegation, the principle idea has value and I think it's something to keep in mind. The third thing is sociocracy, maybe not talking too much about this because it has some limitations in the scale but at least for some few hundred people it works. basic ideas that people organize in so-called circles with some like within a circle they have kind of they actually have a deliberative process they discuss they decide but restricted to a predefined topic kind of or area of topics and then they have links between these circles it's actually something that was developed for organizations and to the rest of my knowledge actually works quite well but i think after some 200 people kind of it's probably doesn't make more sense okay before i'm coming to my approach like one more slide um is um having a look maybe at uh like collective intentions research um a little bit and kind of understanding what is it what actually we need to solve or like what is it how people actually work together in the best way and um the first thing i think is important i mean this is just a selection but the first thing i think is very important is research shows that keeping the diversity in discussions is very important because if you keep all the diversity you basically lose quality of the final result because if you just have a very narrow view on something you miss out a lot of opportunities and this is also of course then missed in the solution and if you want to keep diversity high it's good to have a have an independent idea collection in the first place because you know social influence you know some people speak out so those who speak out of the first or second they are maybe the ones who are kind of still are kind of mentioning independent things but if you're like the fifth person speaking out an idea you are already influenced by what the others have said before maybe you're not even mentioning something anymore because you feel like ah it seems to go to into the wrong direction because the others have said something totally different and then your idea which was maybe very important is kind of lost uh then the aggregation process needs to be decentralized because like as with citizens if there is a centralized politics thing above and it just decides we don't do whatever you have decided on then there's a centralized approach kind of keeping it out and then yeah it makes no sense or at least loses quality so it needs to be centralized small groups are more efficient than large groups and finding consensus which is also very obvious and if like people in groups have similar accuracy and solving problems then their like group outcome is better than the one of like the best person in the group it's a little bit tricky maybe in this part but it's actually important because it means that if you if you bring people together with a certain way of thinking in a way or a certain quality of working together this kind of improves the collective output okay now the question is how to bring this together in one approach and i think hypocrisy is an approach that brings together at least these points maybe not all that exist but at least these ones at least it's the first approach and the idea of hypocrisy is to use exactly like these collective intelligence insights to um to try to enable a scalable and efficient decision making process so that's that's the book and um decision making process in the democracy protocol is like all oriented on what we call topics um so a topic you can just imagine a community and then people can just like topics are just what what the community like the problems the community actually has can be anything whatever problems exist um and these topics are then structured in several stages which means like first like if everyone can suggest something that the whole community should discuss about it's probably going to first select so maybe not everything is 10. and um yeah and so so we first need to select um the topics which are actually relevant for the community you can imagine this maybe just as a voting mechanism you know you just imagine an online tool and there is a long list of topics that the community can discuss about if the on it and those which reach some some thresholds are then accepted and then the discussion process starts in the next stage um the uh or everyone doesn't have to but can suggest uh like a proposal to kind of how could we solve this problem this is a proposal stage and this is individual like you don't do this in the group you do this like everyone suggesting something isolated from all the others and it can be like very detailed can be very short so the barrier should be very low but in principle everyone can or should suggest something even if it's just a small idea and all of those who have proposed something can now then like joining their decisions evolution stage which is coming in the next slide and finally if like the group comes up with a solution um then it's finally evaluated again by some voting mechanisms to just make sure that everyone is really happy with the final set okay so how are these ideas integrated so this is now the kind of the core part of the idea so first um we have this dot representing a user and we have this document representing a proposal from this user regarding a kind of topic that was selected so it's kind of a problem that they want to discuss about um and now we have this very simple animation here just nine nine users suggesting nine individuals proposals of how to solve the problem. Now these users are assigned to small groups because small groups are better than final consensus and in these small groups they have a collaborative document and their job is to actually look at each other's proposals and try to find a new solution. This can be like synchronous in a way that they maybe just have a meeting, they may be just together for an hour or so and discuss and write it in their collaborative document you can imagine this kind of just as a google docs document but it can also be asynchronously so in in other cases like i think especially in political um cases it probably makes sense to have um like more asynchronous tools available like that people can chat and use forums or whatever so that they don't need to read all the time and in parallel to this writing process they elect one person in this group that that should be the representative of their group's result. So ideally a person that is like, that knows a lot about the topic that is discussed about, ideally a person that is quite cooperative and kind of innovative and kind of merging ideas together. And ideally a person that is quite engaged. Like this, these are kind of the criteria and based on this one representative is chosen. And then we just take all the representatives and they take with them their group's documents. And then in a new group, they look at each other's group documents and have actually the same job. So they should try to find consensus on this kind of and integrating all the entities. And in this small case, they would reach like the final solution. And if we scale this a little bit up and we just assume groups of five, then it would look like this. Like we have 125 people suggesting a solution for a problem that we have in the community. and they are then resigned to groups of five discussing the problem and like looking at each other's ideas and trying to bring it together and deciding on a representative and then like the representatives of only 125 groups so 25 representatives are again assigned to small


groups and discuss the previous group's solutions to a new solution and again elect a representative


and then these representatives are again grouped together to find a group and this then finally makes a final decision and then we have this election process like an evaluation process where like all these one-hour 25 people give a final vote if they are happy with like what the last group has decided on to just make sure that you know it might happen that here in this group maybe something went off the rails and into a totally different direction than yeah i don't maybe a lot of ideas are missing this kind of this financial and the cool thing is that if um if you apply this oops you apply this then um with one thousand participants you just need like five levels um to integrate one thousand individual ideas of how to solve a problem you have it kind of efficient because you're just in five levels and not too many group meetings but you still have this deliberative character character so people just uh are so still discussing actually they're not just voting they're discussing about this specific topic and even if you do this with like one million people um you would reach like end up with 13 levels so integrate one million ideas individual ideas into one final solution through a discussion process would just need 13 levels of discussions which is still a lot but somehow feels feasible in a way especially if we make use of all these tools like the facilitation tools i mentioned in the beginning yeah now um i have not so much time left um so i cannot go through all of this but i want to mention that if we're at some point able to build like a democracy then kind of a new way of democracy i mean so my perspective is always like democracy is not about to end democracy is about to start in a way so kind of we're just starting to develop what democracy actually means um but if we develop a new system there would be one problem like imagine imagine like we would develop a new democratic system deliberative good scale we would face all these you know misinformation problems polarization but we would come over all of this what would And our today's work would probably happen as, you know, Google would take the idea, would make a nice tool of it and would sell it. And you know, the same thing that happens with the internet, the same thing that happens with social media, the sense actually the same thing that happens currently with AI or happened even with blockchain. And so I think we need to prepare to kind of already start thinking about how can this be implemented in a way that it's kind of safe against like companies that would use it in appropriate way to make money with, you know, and I think especially in that democratic, when it's about democracy, it's especially important. Yeah, I think, I think it's clear, hopefully. And I have, how many minutes do I have left? How many minutes? Three minutes. Two minutes, okay. Just jump over this. So there are actually like two things that we have to keep in mind. One is what is in the, like, scientific literature normally called governance by code or governance by algorithm. It's like doing democratic decision making or whole governance using algorithms using code is one side of the thing and this is kind of what I've talked about and what actually most projects are focusing on and if we would do this more decentralized then we would use like of course something like blockchain technologies but I think blockchain technologies are not yet there to kind of provide this and we would yeah maybe and jumping over this not talking too much about this and then kind of the other side of the of the coin kind of is governance of code because you know you can build a nice a nice platform for democratic decision making but then the question is who owns the platform and who actually decides about the rules of the platform and and there are two approaches that i think are quite interesting one is what we call community parameters is kind of that you have a platform where the users can kind of define what parameters they want to see and then the platform kind of automatically adapts to the average report of what you have to find and the other thing is and this is actually why i got funding for now for for the first time is and it's actually quite a very interesting project it's kind of to also to use this evocacy process not based on text documents to decide about political things but based on code editors and the basic idea would be to you know people can write can can bring up an issue about the code of the platform itself can vote on it if it's accepted they propose code changes for like bugs features whatever and then they go through this discussion process with these codes editors and like joining ideas together until they reach up with a final kind of code solution that can then automatically be deployed into the platform so every change in platform is kind of decided democratically and can only go through this process so there's no no like in most blockchain projects you have always a small foundation behind this which actually decides what happens in this case it would be quite democratic actually so this is kind of one one of the ideas i'm now testing a little bit and finally like something about identity this is very cool but due to time i'm skipping over this um too important and finally like closing with my own research like what i'm currently like doing actually is uh like in the first like i'm i'm now i'm about to publish uh the democracy protocol it's a kind of it's a kind of abstract paper and this is actually about to finish um then we're doing a study where we test this decision-making process of the advocacy protocol tailored for small organizations this is what i'm actually doing here like in collaboration with taiwan uh where we're developing a tool for and then hopefully next year it will be um study and then um we have a simulation approach that is like a little bit um aside at the moment but which is quite interesting where we want to kind of use not only the advocacy process maybe the first to go through the process with uh lm agents that kind of do the discussion process in order to like uh tune the system in a way so kind of um kind of bring it to to extend in extreme conditions finding parameters stuff like this and uh the goal is to like save time and money and in not doing manual studies all the time but instead like kind of pre-tested with ai agents and finally what i just mentioned before the blockchain governance exploration and this is also something i'm now actively working on or yeah and um yeah then i'm closing with the like the team behind that is currently working or participating in one of the other projects and um if you like be free to connect that's it thanks for having me


Okay, I would like to readjust several of the agents because originally it would be like me after Carl to share VTaiwan's work. I will share VTaiwan's content. But since somebody and some of our friends is actually going to leave at 8 o'clock, 所以我想要稍微調整一下,讓大家來問答的流程,等於有更完整的時間可以讓大家來問問題。 So if you have any questions, or you think that something goes really fast, so that I cannot catch up or cannot digest it, please, like, say it again. Then just feel free to raise your hand and ask your question. So you have a mic? Do you have any question? If you have no question, I would like to ask one question. Can you please go back to the scaling markers, the deliberation? Like... Yeah, no, no, next slide. This one. Yes. Like this one? Yes. So I wonder, in your experiments, any challenges happening during the evolution in decision making? and also about how to process large amount of data, not only to preserve the accuracy, but due to appropriate summarization. I think these are key issues that we can for large scale opinion gathering. My question is, because when we're doing such a large opinion, the most important thing is that when we're doing such a large opinion, We need to balance these kinds of things. We need to make sure that we need to make the summarization. But we need to make the most important parts of the most important part. We need to make summarization in the process of the same way. That's my question. Yeah, cool, thanks.


So, yeah, it's a good question, actually. So far, there are only two small kind of free pilot tests, I will say it was just like one with I think 12 people one with 20 so very small scale and the first test that should let you see more than 100 people is the one right now here like the like institute um so I cannot I cannot tell too much about experience about this because we're lacking experience and but what I can say about like our first pilot studies was actually um a little bit bit surprising to me um that the amount of information was actually rather too low than too high which is i think something is actually quite common in the like participating participatory processes that a lot of people are just not attending or just attending like with very very like minimal kind of output in a way um and it was just in a higher level it's like you know just in


kind of the second level where then the representatives were the ones that were a little bit more engaged


which were the ones that were actually already the most engaged in the previous groups and were then slowly some more like engagement came up but it's actually a little bit like the data i have or the experience i've invented was too small to really judge on this and actually i assume that in higher levels there would be a high problem in like uh dealing with all the information so that's also why like in the first study we really focused on some few hundred people because we have three to four levels i think it should be feasible to kind of work with all the information but if it's like more people and more levels then maybe after five six levels or so the documents become very long because a lot of work to integrate all of this and then i think that there needs to be a lot of the facilitation methods i mentioned in place or even some we don't know yet so there probably needs to be some innovation um so that's why i'm focusing at the moment on some few hundreds and then let's then i need to to bring it forward for more experience with you know people and see what happens what will be done so saying maybe this way this one this like this one building example really shows like kind of potential but i think like it always is in reality going this way will like probably like there will be a lot of kind of roadblocks in the way that's We need to go more and count. So it's not the easy solution directly. Definitely.


Do you have any other questions? No? Bestian,你好像說你8點會下線,就是想問說Bestian,聽了這些分享之後,有沒有什麼回饋或想要問的問題 有一些問答的部分,等一下我再唸那個問答的部分 Bestian,請說


對,我想問一下,我看了這個Evolution in Decision Making的程序 I remember the company in


like the universities or same things they are developing their own online deliberation platforms using for very large-scale meetings and also to overcome the challenges of geographical barriers or people living in different times, almost like that. And the one application, I think the most famous one is from Stanford University. They have become online deliberation platforms on that. And also another one is from Harvard University. And we have tried that before, actually. It was called Frankly. Yeah. And Batch and Wanderers, these kind of platforms are beneficial in the use of evolution in business making.


Yeah, so actually, in terms of concrete software, like testing this, that's another thing, but maybe putting it this way, like the advocacy approach that is spread here is really defined as a protocol. So it's not a platform, it's not a tool, it's not a software, it's just a protocol. I actually forgot how Frankly was working, but I was discussing this just like two months ago, with some people from the Metcalf community. And from my understanding of that time, I realized that Frankly probably is kind of a special case of the advocacy process. And this kind of shows, at least that was my understanding of the time, and that shows a little bit like the approach of all of this is not, like really in particularly not in particular not to develop a new tool but instead of trying to find a language a taxonomy definitions approaches that kind of abstracting define democratic processes to derive all other mechanisms like if for just a very simple example you may know the word coffee approach you know where people gather in small groups and then they just switch and have another and you can imagine this as an evolution process where you have like because in the protocol you don't need to have one representative you can also have several like more representatives per group and if you choose no representatives at all you can just have one level with again 125 people


then you basically have a world coffee approach you know the the goal is really to to also develop


this further and maybe in the future it's not even called democracy anymore but develop this further in an abstract way to kind of really kind of defining how we can define democratic processes


and understanding of the processes. I don't know if this makes sense, but that's how I described it,


but this is kind of my thinking about it. So the other approaches are like something I would more and more also look at and try to integrate, and hopefully not alone, hopefully with all of you together at some point. Yeah, but this is kind of the idea, kind of build a framework for everything kind of. Got it.


Any other questions? Do you have any other questions you want to ask about what Michael just mentioned? We got one question from the comments on the sidebar. So we can see a question in the information. can AI influence the decisions? So can AI usage influence the decisions?


I think it can be a many different letters


to elaborate it.


Yeah, so of course, yes.


And I think it's like, I would say yes, and in both ways, in a good way and in a bad way. And I think it's something we all together probably need to understand in the next years or hopefully sooner, like in which way we use AI to really help us and in which way we should not use it because it kind of makes things worse. I think this is kind of the answer to this at the moment, but I really think this is something we have to explore and also depends on the future developments of AI. - I want to ask more tangible, following on this question is that


if people like uploaded their opinion,


like when you generate their opinions through AI,


they are asking that. So I think this is kind of a bit what people frequently do, is that based on your understanding, because we have a lot of input data into the AI, and then after that we can say, okay, based on your understanding to me, based on your habits that you understand about me, then please generate one sentence to express my opinion. I think people are really lazy about, some people are really lazy about creating public opinions or products that they need to know how to public discussions, so they may use the AI to delegate their work.


I mean, personally, just personally speaking, I would think it's totally fine to this. I think it even has the potential to kind of increase the number of participants because they are more engaged, or they're not so afraid in kind of saying something because they rely on maybe what JGPT was bringing out, and if they really think, like, if they maybe wrote some prompts and there is a result where they really personally agree with and they just go in with this kind of approach totally fine i have no problem with this um and actually like also in the groups this is i think one of the first things i would like to explore kind of like one of the next steps is to kind of um let ai write summaries of like all the five proposals such that people do not start with an empty document but with like an ai summarized document So people are not in the position of writing something from scratch, but instead of kind of criticizing the AI for the solution that it's to come up with and just correcting everything what the AI has brought up. Maybe some idea was missing, but then they just put it in. Maybe something was, maybe the AI was coming up with a new idea that was no one expecting and it's fine and it's a good idea. But there's kind of still human control in the end. But the AI is in a system that helps and just reduces the workload load. And I think that's great. And I think that's in my current understanding of AI, that is kind of how we should use AI actually. -


Yeah, and I think I will use only 10 minutes to split the minutes to introduce our community and also introduce popular viewing. Okay, you can please like switching to the slides to my installs. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Let me see the spotty's camera. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thanks, Steve. Just for a jacket. Is it the WebRest button tool? 的 show, is a community project working on using digital tools for public discussions, and we have online meet up once a week. So in this way, VTaiwan is originally a public and private partnership project working by the government and the civic tech community, Gauvero. But right now, I think we are not having a distant connection with the government because I think it also becomes a challenge for every kind of civic participatory approach. Whether the approach becomes very institutionalized, becomes very inside the government, and becomes institutionalized. Or it will become given up by the government at the end, once the people, the critical person, the critical policy servants leave. And I think in BTAL1's cases, I think we are lucky because all of our projects are open sourced. So people are easily attracted and people can easily recover the projects by themselves. I think BTAL has been through like second or third revival coming from this more like a like more from a more silent mode to a more active mode. So our last time to become more active is during the pandemic. So after the pandemic in 2023, we received a grant from OpenAI and we successfully got selected by OpenAI. So there are 10 things to get the grant of democratic input to AI because you know that the AI is a new thing. Everybody is talking about AI risk, AI governance. So people are always wanting to say, okay, how about we use the deliberate democracy or these kind of new concepts. this kind of like a little concept to govern AI and to see what is happening and also to deal with the risk brought back AI and that is how we talk about getting involved again and currently we have like the online meet up every week and sometimes the online meet up will be like this we have the real space meet up thanks to the Godot community and thanks to Godot Jouzon Tax Force they letting us the van in for us to help these kind of events venue for us to do the presentation. So our mission: so basically we want to know, we want to use, and we want to test how different tools can help public discussions. So in the usually every week's meetup we have friends from everywhere around the world like from ZTH, from Zurich, and also from Oxford University or UCL, from London, or you have also have folks in the United States. So they will bring into us some latest article, some latest research developments about these kind of like digital tools. And we also working with different organizations like People Powered and other organizations working on the deliberate democracy. I will introduce them later. And currently a lot of different tools are developing like Agora is one system in Switzerland because in Switzerland they have a lot of like a public voting public poll so they will have to develop a tool for people to get a hands-on experience about the public poll to understand the context about the issue to understand the part is the both sides of the public post saying and to make their own decisions before they do the real voting to the public poll and also there's different kinds of tools using online tools as well. We have several analysis and research on different online tools using the participatory process. And also several challenges happens, like first of all, the online participatory approach can be very dynamic, so it can change very fast and also it should cater to different needs, different people's needs, to different groups of people. If you are treating the elder people, maybe the strategy that you are engaged with the elder people, it will be different from the strategy that you engage with the younger people. So that is why we are testing different tools to find out that strategy to engage with the person that we're trying to engage. And in vTaiwan, I think our core concept is that we want to engage with the most stakeholder, different stakeholder in one policy rather than engage with a very large amount of people but they're having very large similarity of time. So different stakeholders and diversity, just as what you say, diversity is really critical to large-scale participatory approach. So that is what we want as well. Okay, so to achieve a goal and also to become like to testing different tools, we actually have different series of events and these events are called issued meetup. So issued meetup is aimed to facilitate discussions and exchange of diverse perspectives of different people on the topic by collecting the opinion in the events using polis and other digital tools. And also we engage with people through face-to-face dialogue. So it would technically have three different stages. The first stage is the pre-events opinion collection. So we will create a polis link or create different Google sites or Google form link and tapping onto asking people, probing people's opinion and trying to spread the link as far as possible, trying to get the right wide range of opinion as far as possible. And then we're going to do the issue meetup to do the discussions, to do the summarize, to do the introduction of the issue and then to make people engage with each other face to face and not only we do that in the real space face to face meetup but also we do a very online meetup as well so it's kind of like a hybrid mode so people can participate online or participate in the real space just as all we have today so these kind of diverse ways in uh actually also the core is the core of these how we do this is that we need to maintain the diversity to ensure that most people can participate by themselves as well to participate in the issue meetup and afterwards we will do the visualization of the opinion and uh wait a minute and uh since 2024 in November we have already do several different online issue meetup and the face-to-face issue meetup so the first one is that we're talking whether the online public deliberation works. And the second one is that we're talking about AI regulations in Taiwan, because currently it's a hot topic in Taiwan, and currently Taiwan is going to have the first AI-specific law in Taiwan. And the third one is that because the online scan and these kind of online fraud issues become very and very serious in Taiwan, and the public discussions and public discourse is full of that, so that we are talking about online scan as well, working with the TWNIC, same to TWNIC offering the online event venue, offering the meeting rooms, and offering a lot of


like support for our financial resources. And finally, we are also doing the AI content moderation,


because currently on social media, people are uploading a lot of content on their social media, so that however, if you want to ensure that people are full of social media, if they want to ensure that their platforms are not full of discriminated content or hate crimes or child porn. They were going to use AI to help moderate these kinds of content. However, these AI moderations also can have some false negative or false positive cases. So how to prevent or how is the boundary? What is the line? What is the boundary between the right and appropriate AI moderation and the not appropriate air moderation can be a very critical topic in Taiwan. Okay, so that is what we are doing. So basically, we have we're trying to make the discussions happening on both online and offline. So basically, we foster the discussion strong and competency. We're using the community discussions to shape the seed questions, inviting people coming up or doing the interviews with people to cultivate the seed opinions. And then we're doing the online opinion collection to gather public opinions as well. And finally, we move into the issue meetup to do the in-maps discussions combined with digital tools. Some digital tools are used to, we use to do the hybrid mode of participation, including the teams, Microsoft Teams, to do the real-time script and also to do the real-time recording of the whole meeting and and the whole participatory process. Also, we use Mentimeter. To use Mentimeter is that we're trying to make, we're trying to realize a deliberative method in the hybrid mode. So you know that if we are playing the games inside the room, only the people coming up, showing up in a face-to-face meetup can participate into the game. Like if standing on my right-hand side and standing on the left-hand side, if you say yes or no, and just like showing a real spectrum for people to experience that, how the spectrum is going. But however, if for the people going up online, they cannot participate into the spectrum because they are not physically into the room. But however, with Mentimeter or our interactive slides or our interactive services, we're able to visualize every vote coming from no matter face to face or online participants to participate into the whole decision making. And these kind of real time visualizations allows people to understand their senses, allow people to understand how is the atmosphere and how is dynamic in this room and also on online making. So this is what we are doing right now. And we also using some new accounts as well. So we're trying to use the AI to do a more dynamic participation. So in a traditional way of participation, usually the opinions do not change because if you want to change the opinion, it will take a lot of time to summarize people's input, to summarize people's opinion, and to adding these opinions to the original piece of work and then creating a new piece of work. It will take a lot of time and usually you will receive the new piece of work only after the event. However, with the AI, we are able to use in a more dynamic way, which is that we include the transcript in the in-person discussions. We include the submitting opinions from gathering from the old mental method, and we include the opinion of original opinion. And then we put it into the AI model and trying to build a more dynamic deliberative facilitation. So basically it's like that. So using many materials we are able to real-time to show and to understand what is the people's view about the current status right now. Like this is one of the issues on my scan. One very polarized issue is that whether the anti-fraud effort should be carried out voluntarily by the companies or the government should do some mandatory measures or regulations to order these companies to do some real work. So basically it is kind of like whether the public should prevail on the private power, private self-governance, or the private self-governance should prevail on the public order as well. So people have shown their intention about these opinions. About 26% are strongly disagree, about 30% people are disagree, and some 90% people are neutral. And afterwards, we can actually have discussions on that. So people can upload their opinions afterwards saying that, okay, these governance mandatory regulations are all relating indicators or the governance regulations usually have to be applied uniformly and cannot take into account of different business types and scales. So these are the people supporting that. The private self-governance model is more prevailing when it comes to dealing with the online crowd. And for some people, they are thinking that, no, the government should take more power so that people upload their opinions like the companies are linking incentives to prevent the fraud, and some companies are profit-driven. So the profit-driven company, they will not waste their time and money to do some investments into dealing with the MLI fraud unless the government's actually willing to do so. So this is actually all we have, well, opinion, and all we have about the people's mind about that. And then we can generate the new opinion based on the original opinion and what people have input through AI. So the final way is that, okay, the anti-froud work actually needs the collaboration between the government and the corporation. The corporations are linking the incentives to actively preventing the fraud. And if you only rely on self-governance, it might not be enough to deal with the online fraud issues in Taiwan. But the government regulations also have some problems, like they are not really flexible. They are not able to deal with different contacts. They are not able to deal with the different business type. So the more ideal way is that the government can build a legal framework and punishment method and giving some legal basis for the corporations to do their work. Also, they can also create some several incentives for the companies to input and to do some investments actively like that. So they can create a more dynamic opinion gathering through the AI usage. And also, here's another issue that I want to draw and read recently. It was from the ninth, first amendment institute at Columbia University. They actually discussed one very critical issue about how, if AI mediations can improve the democratic deliberation. And basically, they are having the series like this. So AI versus the deliberative democracies is having the relationships like this. So every democratic deliberation, they have to face critical challenges that we cannot achieve these three things all at once. So those three things is board participation, another one is political equality, and final thing is the meaningful discussions. If we want to have political equality and meaningful discussions, then we must scaling down the whole participatory of that method because we cannot guarantee the quality and also the discussion by the broad and large-scale discussions. But if we want to achieve the broad discussions and the broad participation, maybe political equality will be sacrificed because we enroll in too many people and these people cannot do the meaningful participation or these people cannot participate into the process equally because we cannot care about the diversity if we care about the world participation. So these kind of challenges can actually be solved by AI. Like AI can actually allow the participation of many people. It can also be designed to preserve the minority viewpoints and avoid majority dominations. And AI technologies can also clarify the meanings, integrate different positions, and making the output more structured and discussable. So the results can be AI can actually become the tool for us to achieve the dreams of balancing the three different critical elements of deliberative democracy. However, AI also has some challenges, like AI mediations are not perfect solutions. Attention must be paid to the risk, like the model biases can lead to the misunderstanding or modernization of the certain groups. Actually, in Taiwan's context, we have tested one thing before. During our online scan, we're using the AI to polish the opinion, to remove the emotional arousing content from the opinion that we gather. But while we find that the AI cannot understand the local context of the wording they are using in the online scans. I think I will try to explain that in English, but also followed by Mandarin. In Taiwanese context, the word 車手 is actually having different context than the word 詐騙集團的基層人語 So AI will try to understand that, okay, 車手 is kind of like the basic worker or the first-line worker for the online thrower skating gamsters. But in Taiwan, Cho-Sou is kind of like in different meanings. It means that there are the people not in organizations, but kind of like outsourcing jobs by just taking the money from the people who got cheated by the fraud schemes like that. So this is kind of misunderstanding or this kind of like, not quite accurate transmission actually becomes a risk for us when we actually want to use the AI in deliberative democracy. And some future developments include enhanced accessibilities and representativeness for diverse groups. Like we need to have more diversified databases for AI usage. And also we need to strengthen the transparency and explainability of the AI. After we're using the AI to do the dynamic discussions, the participants are actually curious about why and how we are using AI. Like how to use the AI, what is your prompt, and what is the opinion you include in the AI input, how to generate the AI.


Can these kind of results be replicated by our own prompt or by our own inputs as well? This kind of things can be very critical for the trust of the whole process. And the trust, if it's not satisfied, it can actually

